Kaleido docs updates for v1 (#5111)
plotly/plotly.py: doc/python/static-image-export.md

    thumbnail: thumbnail/static-image-export.png
---

> This page demonstrates how to export interactive Plotly figures to static image formats like PNG, JPEG, SVG, and PDF. If you want to export Plotly figures to HTML to retain interactivity, see the [Interactive HTML Export page](/python/interactive-html-export/)

Reviewer: Please check with @emilykl to confirm that PDF export is supported.

Author: Sure. Looks like it is, because we added the message here to suggest PDF instead of EPS
https://github.com/plotly/plotly.py/pull/5062/files#diff-e30d1d28e90c51821f0eeed0db68656f4317c0754deaec93c3365b8a93b4caefR329-R332

Reviewer 2: Yup, EPS is the only format which is no longer supported by Kaleido v1.

<!-- #region -->
## Install Dependencies

### Kaleido

Static image generation requires [Kaleido](https://github.com/plotly/Kaleido).
Install Kaleido with pip:
```
$ pip install -U kaleido
```
or with conda:
```
$ conda install -c conda-forge python-kaleido
```

It's also possible to generate static images using [Orca](https://github.com/plotly/orca), though support for Orca will be removed after September 2025. See the [Orca Management](/python/orca-management/) page for more details.

### Chrome

> Kaleido uses Chrome for static image generation. Versions of Kaleido prior to v1 included Chrome. Kaleido v1 and later uses Chrome that's available on the machine on which it's running. If you need to install Chrome for static image generation, Plotly provides a CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kaleido uses Chrome for static image generation. Versions of Kaleido prior to v1 included Chrome. Kaleido v1 and later uses the Chrome that's available on the machine on which it's running. If you need to install Chrome for static image generation, Plotly provides a CLI.
```

> Run `plotly_get_chrome` to install Chrome. 

Author: That info should go on this page. @emilykl do you know which versions of Chrome are required / where Kaleido will look?

> Run `plotly_get_chrome` to install Chrome. 

Reviewer 3: Theoretically any recent chromium-based browser works but sometimes bugs slip through google into ranges of versions that they don't catch for a few weeks.

So I have fixed right now one known good version that I know works, so that's what we download:

https://github.com/plotly/choreographer/blob/main/choreographer/resources/last_known_good_chrome.json

Generally updating chrome should work, the only thing that makes it not work is if there are bugs slipping through googles QA. We could automate testing to make tables in the future.

As far as locations:

1. look where we normally download (not relevant if not using `get_chrome()`)
2. search through os-variable PATH for like 10 different common names:

https://github.com/plotly/choreographer/blob/6f94e1d2b7c6c7cc5ddbe4f1f4be41515e117c12/choreographer/browsers/_chrome_constants.py#L4-L16

3. Last-ditch "this is where we think it usually is:

https://github.com/plotly/choreographer/blob/6f94e1d2b7c6c7cc5ddbe4f1f4be41515e117c12/choreographer/browsers/_chrome_constants.py#L18-L34

All you can override by passing `path=` to browser in choreographer or BROWSER_PATH env var.

NB:

Some audited systems will create headaches
1. AND you're turning on sandbox in the browser settings
2. AND you're only running as root

Not possible, sandbox and root don't play, one or the other.

So there will be corner cases like that which pop up in issues, mainly for people running on highly specifically configured systems.

> Run `plotly_get_chrome` to install Chrome. 

Author: Thanks @ayjayt. Added more info on browser versions.

You can also install Chrome from within Python using `plotly.io.install_chrome()`

```python
import plotly.io as pio

pio.install_chrome()
```
<!-- #endregion -->

## Write Image to a File

Plotly figures have a `write_image` method to write a figure to a file. `write_image` supports PNG, JPEG, WebP, SVG, and PDF. 

> To export a figure using `write_image`, call `write_image` on the figure with the filename where you want to save the figure on the figure. The file format is inferred from the extension: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To export a figure using `write_image`, call `write_image` on the figure, and pass as an argument the filename where you want to save the figure. The file format is inferred from the extension: 
```

### Raster Formats

**PNG** 
~~~python
import plotly.express as px
data_canada = px.data.gapminder().query("country == 'Canada'")
fig = px.bar(data_canada, x='year', y='pop')
fig.write_image("fig1.png")
~~~

**JPEG**

~~~python
...
fig.write_image("images/fig1.jpeg")
~~~

**WebP**

~~~python
...
fig.write_image("images/fig1.webp")
~~~

### Vector Formats

**SVG**
~~~python
...
fig.write_image("images/fig1.svg")
~~~

**PDF**

~~~python
...
fig.write_image("images/fig1.pdf")
~~~

---

**EPS** (Kaleido<1.0.0)

> Kaleido versions earlier than 1.0.0 also support **EPS** (requires the poppler library)

Reviewer 2: Worth adding a sentence here to say, "If using Kaleido v1 or greater, we recommend PDF or SVG format" ?

~~~python
...
fig.write_image("images/fig1.eps")
~~~

**Note:** Figures containing WebGL traces (i.e. of type `scattergl`, `contourgl`, `scatter3d`, `surface`, `mesh3d`, `scatterpolargl`, `cone`, `streamtube`, `splom`, or `parcoords`) that are exported in a vector format will include encapsulated rasters, instead of vectors, for some parts of the image.

### Specify a Format

> In the earlier example, Plotly inferred the image format from the extension of the filename. You can also specify this with the `format` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the earlier example, Plotly inferred the image format from the extension of the filename. You can also specify the format explicitly using the `format` parameter.
```

~~~python
import plotly.express as px
data_canada = px.data.gapminder().query("country == 'Canada'")
fig = px.bar(data_canada, x='year', y='pop')
fig.write_image("fig1", format="png")
~~~

## Get Image as Bytes

As well as exporting to a file, Plotly figures also support conversion to a bytes object. 
To convert a figure to a **PNG** bytes object, call the figure's `to_image` method with a `format`

```python
import plotly.express as px
data_canada = px.data.gapminder().query("country == 'Canada'")
fig = px.bar(data_canada, x='year', y='pop')

img_bytes = fig.to_image(format="png")
```

> ### Display Bytes as Image Using `IPython.display.Image`

Reviewer 2: Wondering if we still need this section... can't you achieve (roughly) the same thing by doing `fig.show(renderer="png")`?

Author: Yes, I think you could achieve roughly the same thing `fig.show(renderer="png")`. I wonder if there's a more realistic use case for something you'd do with the output of `fig.to_image(format="png")`. I will look into it.

Reviewer: what was the resolution of this?

Author: I think the idea of using `IPython.display.Image` here is to demonstrate that `fig.to_image` returns a bytes object and here is what it looks like when displayed. I've rewritten it to try and make that clearer.

A bytes object representing a PNG image can be displayed directly in the notebook using the `IPython.display.Image` class. This also works in the [Qt Console for Jupyter](https://qtconsole.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)!

```python
from IPython.display import Image
Image(img_bytes)
```

## Change Image Dimensions and Scale

> In addition to the image format, the `to_image` and `write_image` functions provide arguments to specify the image `width` and `height` in logical pixels. They also provide a `scale` parameter that can be used to increase (`scale` > 1) or decrease (`scale` < 1) the physical resolution of the resulting image.

Reviewer 2: What is a "logical pixel"?

Does it have something to do with the fact that vector images don't have a pixel width/height? I am honestly still not QUITE sure how the `width` and `height` parameters are used when exporting to SVG or PDF (though I can tell the resulting image has the right aspect ratio).

Reviewer: physical vs. logical pixels: https://blog.specctr.com/pixels-physical-vs-logical-c84710199d62 - be very afraid of venturing too far down this road…

    thumbnail: thumbnail/static-image-export.png
---

This page demonstrates how to export interactive Plotly figures to static image formats like PNG, JPEG, SVG, and PDF. If you want to export Plotly figures to HTML to retain interactivity, see the [Interactive HTML Export page](/python/interactive-html-export/)

<!-- #region -->
## Install Dependencies

### Kaleido

Static image generation requires [Kaleido](https://github.com/plotly/Kaleido).
Install Kaleido with pip:
```

> $ pip install -U kaleido

Reviewer 2: a bit tangential, but I'd prefer we spell out the `--upgrade` flag for clarity rather than using `-U`. 

If `-U` is used elsewhere in the docs, that's fine, it makes sense to be consistent, but if not, could we change it to `--upgrade`?

Author: I agree. Using `--upgrade` is better

```
or with conda:
```
$ conda install -c conda-forge python-kaleido
```

It's also possible to generate static images using [Orca](https://github.com/plotly/orca), though support for Orca will be removed after September 2025. See the [Orca Management](/python/orca-management/) page for more details.

### Chrome

> Kaleido uses Chrome for static image generation. Versions of Kaleido prior to v1 included Chrome. Kaleido v1 and later uses Chrome (or Chromium) if it can find a compatible version on the machine on which it's running. If you need to install Chrome for static image generation, Plotly provides a CLI.

Reviewer 2: wording suggestion for this paragraph -- also adding in a suggestion that they can install Chrome directly from Google if they want to, since that will most likely work fine and some users might be more comfortable with that rather than trusting the Plotly command.

```suggestion
Kaleido uses Chrome for static image generation. Versions of Kaleido prior to v1 included Chrome as part of the Kaleido package. Kaleido v1 does not include Chrome; instead, it looks for a compatible version of Chrome (or Chromium) already installed on the machine on which it's running.

If you don't have Chrome installed, you can install it directly from Google following the instructions for your operating system.

Plotly also provides a CLI for installing Chrome from the command line.
```

Run `plotly_get_chrome` to install Chrome.

You can also install Chrome from within Python using `plotly.io.install_chrome()`

```python
import plotly.io as pio

pio.install_chrome()
```

See the **Additional Information on Browsers with Kaleido** section below for more details on browser compatibility for Kaleido.

<!-- #endregion -->

## Write Image to a File

> Plotly figures have a `write_image` method to write a figure to a file. `write_image` supports PNG, JPEG, WebP, SVG, and PDF.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Plotly figures have a `write_image` method to write a figure to a file. `write_image` supports PNG, JPEG, WebP, SVG, and PDF formats.
```

### Specify a Format

In the earlier example, Plotly inferred the image format from the extension of the filename. You can also specify the format explicitly using the `format` parameter.

~~~python
import plotly.express as px
data_canada = px.data.gapminder().query("country == 'Canada'")
fig = px.bar(data_canada, x='year', y='pop')
fig.write_image("fig1", format="png")
~~~

## Get Image as Bytes

As well as exporting to a file, Plotly figures also support conversion to a bytes object.
To convert a figure to a **PNG** bytes object, call the figure's `to_image` method with a `format`

```python
import plotly.express as px
data_canada = px.data.gapminder().query("country == 'Canada'")
fig = px.bar(data_canada, x='year', y='pop')
img_bytes = fig.to_image(format="png")
```

Here's the bytes object displayed using `IPython.display.Image`:

```python
from IPython.display import Image
Image(img_bytes)
```

> ## Change Image Dimensions and Scale

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Specify Image Dimensions and Scale
```

In addition to the image format, the `to_image` and `write_image` functions provide arguments to specify the image `width` and `height` in logical pixels. They also provide a `scale` parameter that can be used to increase (`scale` > 1) or decrease (`scale` < 1) the physical resolution of the resulting image.

```python
img_bytes = fig.to_image(format="png", width=600, height=350, scale=2)
Image(img_bytes)
```

## Specify Image Export Engine

> > The `engine` parameter is deprecated in Plotly.py 6.1.0 and will be removed after September 2025.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The `engine` parameter, as well as Orca support, is deprecated in Plotly.py 6.1.0 and will be removed after September 2025.
```

fig.to_image(format="png", engine="kaleido")
~~~

<!-- #region -->
## plotly.io Functions

Previous examples on this page access `write_image` and `to_image` as methods on Plotly Figure objects. This functionality is also available via the `plotly.io` subpackage.

> The following example uses the `write_image` function from  `plotly.io`. The function takes the figure or a `dict` representing a figure (as shown in the example) as it's first argument.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example uses the `write_image` function from  `plotly.io`. The function takes the figure or a `dict` representing a figure (as shown in the example) as its first argument.
```

              "x": [1, 2, 3],
              "y": [1, 3, 2]}],
    "layout": {"title": {"text": "A Figure Specified By Python Dictionary"}}
})

pio.write_image(fig, "fig.png")
~~~
<!-- #endregion -->

## Image Export Settings (Kaleido)

As well as configuring height, width, and other settings by passing arguments when calling `write_image` and `to_image`, you can specify defaults to be used. 

### Available Settings

The following settings are availble. 

`default_width`: The default pixel width to use on image export.

`default_height`: The default pixel height to use on image export.

`default_scale`: The default image scale factor applied on image export.

`default_format`: The default image format used on export. One of "png", "jpeg", "webp", "svg", "pdf", or "eps" (Kaleido v0 only).

`mathjax`: Location of the MathJax bundle needed to render LaTeX characters. Defaults to a CDN location. If fully offline export is required, set this to a local MathJax bundle.

`topojson`: Location of the topojson files needed to render choropleth traces. Defaults to a CDN location. If fully offline export is required, set this to a local directory containing the Plotly.js topojson files.

> 

Author: TODO: Confirm status of `mathjax` and `topojson` before full release and adjust docs.

Reviewer: what was the resolution of the TODO?

Author: Those settings were added here https://github.com/plotly/plotly.py/pull/5062/files#diff-3286c2428b898cb1f89f41c8a58258c84d68aa65fe4a60c13cfa6a8be3ddf399R14-R15
since I wrote the todo.

fig.to_image(format="png", engine="kaleido")
~~~

<!-- #region -->
## plotly.io Functions

Previous examples on this page access `write_image` and `to_image` as methods on Plotly Figure objects. This functionality is also available via the `plotly.io` subpackage.

The following example uses the `write_image` function from  `plotly.io`. The function takes the figure or a `dict` representing a figure (as shown in the example) as its first argument.

~~~python
import plotly.io as pio

fig = dict({
    "data": [{"type": "bar",
              "x": [1, 2, 3],
              "y": [1, 3, 2]}],
    "layout": {"title": {"text": "A Figure Specified By Python Dictionary"}}
})

pio.write_image(fig, "fig.png")
~~~
<!-- #endregion -->

> 

Reviewer 2: Add section here (or elsewhere in the file) documenting the new `pio.write_images` function, recommended for exporting multiple images in a row because it is much faster than calling `pio.write_image` repeatedly.

Documentation for the function is [here](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.py/blob/a2697d573de97334681cac5c665c9b767fbbb1bc/plotly/io/_kaleido.py#L541). Happy to help suggest wording if that would be helpful.

`pio.write_images` should also be referenced in the Kaleido v1 migration doc, because anyone calling `write_images` many times in a row will notice a _significant_ performance hit unless they switch to using `pio.write_images`.

Author: Added an example and note in the migration doc

## Image Export Settings (Kaleido)

As well as configuring height, width, and other settings by passing arguments when calling `write_image` and `to_image`, you can also set a single default to be used throughout the duration of the program.

### Available Settings

The following settings are available.

`default_width`: The default pixel width to use on image export.

`default_height`: The default pixel height to use on image export.

`default_scale`: The default image scale factor applied on image export.

> `default_format`: The default image format used on export. One of "png", "jpeg", "webp", "svg", "pdf", or "eps" (Kaleido v0 only).

Reviewer 2: unclear whether (Kaleido v0 only) applies to just "eps" or the entire setting.

```suggestion
`default_format`: The default image format used on export. One of "png", "jpeg", "webp", "svg", or "pdf". ("eps" support is deprecated and available with Kaleido v0 only)
```

`topojson`: Location of the topojson files needed to render choropleth traces. Defaults to a CDN location. If fully offline export is required, set this to a local directory containing the Plotly.js topojson files.

`mapbox_access_token`: The default Mapbox access token (Kaleido v0 only). Mapbox traces are deprecated. See the [MapLibre Migration](https://plotly.com/python/mapbox-to-maplibre/) page for more details.

### Set Defaults

Since Plotly.py 6.1, settings are available on `plotly.io.defaults`

To set the `default_format` to "jpeg":

~~~python
import plotly.io as pio
pio.defaults.default_format = "jpeg"
~~~

You can also access current defaults. To see the default value for height:

~~~python
import plotly.io as pio
pio.defaults.default_height
~~~

In earlier versions of Plotly.py, these settings are available on `plotly.io.kaleido.scope`. This is deprecated since version 6.1. Use `plotly.io.defaults` instead.

~~~python
import plotly.io as pio
# Example using deprecated `plotly.io.kaleido.scope`
pio.kaleido.scope.default_format = "jpeg"
~~~

### Additional Information on Browsers with Kaleido

> When you export images from Plotly.py, Kaleido will attempt to find a version of [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/index.html) or [Chromium](https://www.chromium.org/getting-involved/download-chromium/) that it can use for the export. It checks in the operating system's PATH for the executables with the following names: "chromium", "chromium-browser",  "chrome", "Chrome", "google-chrome" "google-chrome-stable", "Chrome.app", "Google Chrome", "Google Chrome.app", and "Google Chrome for Testing".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When exporting images from Plotly.py, Kaleido will attempt to find a version of [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/index.html) or [Chromium](https://www.chromium.org/getting-involved/download-chromium/) that it can use for the export. It checks in the operating system's PATH for executables with the following names: "chromium", "chromium-browser",  "chrome", "Chrome", "google-chrome" "google-chrome-stable", "Chrome.app", "Google Chrome", "Google Chrome.app", and "Google Chrome for Testing".
```

Kaleido will also check the following locations:

**Windows**

- r"c:\Program Files\Google\Chrome\Application\chrome.exe"
- f"c:\\Users\\{os.environ.get('USER', 'default')}\\AppData\\"
- "Local\\Google\\Chrome\\Application\\chrome.exe"

**Linux"**

- "/usr/bin/google-chrome-stable"
- "/usr/bin/google-chrome"
- "/usr/bin/chrome"

**Mac OS**

- "/Applications/Google Chrome.app/Contents/MacOS/Google Chrome"

---

> Most recent versions of Chrome or Chromium should work with Kaleido. When you run `plotly_get_chrome`, [the following Chrome version](https://github.com/plotly/choreographer/blob/main/choreographer/resources/last_known_good_chrome.json#L2C17-L2C30) is installed.

Reviewer 2: SORT OF true, _but_ the `last_known_good_chrome.json` on `main` doesn't necessarily match the one in the user's installed version of `choreographer`.

Maybe `choreographer` could have a command-line utility for printing out the version of Chrome it will try to install, if that doesn't already exist. (cc @ayjayt , not super urgent IMO but something to think about).

Other Chromium-based browsers may also work, though Kaleido won't discover them automatically. You can set a browser to use by setting the path to search using an environment variable called `BROWSER_PATH`. For example:

```

> BROWSER_PATH=/Applications/Microsoft\ Edge.app/Contents/MacOS/Microsoft\ Edge

Reviewer 2: this line should begin with `export` right? or do we not usually put `export` for env vars in the docs?
